A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system. A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS).


What is difference between SQL and NoSQL database?
SQL databases are relational, and NoSQL databases are non-relational. SQL databases use structured query language (SQL) and have a predefined schema. NoSQL databases have dynamic schemas for unstructured data. SQL databases are vertically scalable, while NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable.


Relational db  
A relational database is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another. 

non relational database
A non-relational database is a database that does not use the tabular schema of rows and columns found in most traditional database systems. Instead, non-relational databases use a storage model that is optimized for the specific requirements of the type of data being stored.



normalization : 
Normalization is the process of organizing data in a database. It includes creating tables and establishing relationships between those tables according to rules designed both to protect the data and to make the database more flexible by eliminating redundancy and inconsistent dependency


MongoDb: 
MongoDB is built on a scale-out architecture that has become popular with developers of all kinds for developing scalable applications with evolving data schemas. As a document database, MongoDB makes it easy for developers to store structured or unstructured data. It uses a JSON-like format to store documents.

document in mongoDB :
which is a data structure composed of field and value pairs. MongoDB documents are similar to JSON objects. The values of fields may include other documents, arrays, and arrays of documents.

Collection in mongoDB :
A collection is a grouping of MongoDB documents. Documents within a collection can have different fields. A collection is the equivalent of a table in a relational database system. A collection exists within a single database.

database : 
grouping of collection is database.


What is Aggregation in MongoDB? 
Aggregation is a way of processing a large number of documents in a collection by means of passing them through different stages. The stages make up what is known as a pipeline. The stages in a pipeline can filter, sort, group, reshape and modify documents that pass through the pipeline.


cursor : 
it is just like a pointer which is pointing upon a specific index value.which is returned upon the find method execution